https://automationpanda.com

Title of the Feature file
Intent of the Feature file
The names of Scenarios and Feature files must be unique.

Scenario: Test cases
Scenario Title
Intent of the Scenario
Get the system into a particular state
perform some action
Examine the new state
Given, When, Then, But, and And are case sensitive

In a Step Definitions file, And and But are listed as Given/When/Then, the keyword that they appear after. There are no And and But keywords in Step Definitions.

One Feature file normally focuses on one functionality of the application, such as login page, home page, and so on.
One Scenario refers to one sub-Feature of that functionality, such as the new customer page, delete customer page, and so on.

Backgrounds to Feature files:
write the repetitive Steps at one place rather than in all Scenarios
Background is run before each Scenario

Datatable: Sends a large sets of data to a single Step. Associated with one particular Step
Scenario Outlines: data associated with the whole Scenario.Repeat all the Steps of a Scenario for different sets of data.

fixtures:In this chapter, we will discuss how to get control of what Features to run, and when to run them; for example, we may want to run only one set of Feature files like Sanity, or we may want to take a screenshot after each Scenario. This type of control is called fixtures
Cucumber allows us to enable fixtures via the concepts of Tags and Hooks
Tags are used to organize Feature files and Scenarios. You Tag a Scenario by putting a word prefixed with the @ character on the line before the Scenario keyword.

A Feature/Scenario can have multiple Tags; just separate them with spaces or put them on a different line.

Inheritance is when Tags are inherited. If a Feature file has a Tag, then Cucumber will assign that Tag to all Scenarios and all Scenario Outlines in that Feature file.

mvn test -Dcucumber.options="--tags ~@important" will run test cases that do not have the @important Tag associated with them.

run the Scenarios which are Tagged sanity and regression both:
mvn test -Dcucumber.options="--tags @sanity --tags @regression"
run scenarios which are Tagged either sanity or regression
mvn test -Dcucumber.options="--tags @regression,@sanity"
mvn test -Dcucumber.options="--tags @sanity,@regression --tags @wip"

Hooks
running some code before or after test Scenarios

@Before: The Before Hook is run before all the Scenarios of a feature file, including the background. If there are multiple Before Hooks, then they will be run in the order they are written.
@After: The After Hook is run after all Scenarios of a feature file. If there are multiple After Hooks, then they will be run in the order they are written.

The following is the order of execution:
Before Hook
Background
Scenario
After Hook